---
layout: default
title: Notes from 10 gen's M101P MongoDB for Developers courseware
---

# Notes from 10gen's M101P MongoDB for Developers Courseware

I signed up for the online [10gen Education](https://education.10gen.com/) MongoDB for Python Developers course aka M101P. MongoDB sounds like a promising technology and 10gen's courseware uses EdX's excellent software that I had already used for the MIT 6.002x Electronics course so I was pretty confident of the usefulness of all this.  

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <p><strong>Work in Progress!</strong> I'm currently at Week 2 - Querying, cursors</p>
</div>

## Introduction to MongoDB

MongoDB is a non relational datastore. It stores something close from JSON called [BSON](http://bsonspec.org), which stands for Binary JSON. It is schemaless.

### CRUD

In MongoDB vocabulary, Create is `insert`, Read is `find`, Update is `update` and Delete is `remove`. Good for it.

Table is `collection`. `_id` is created by default.

## Mongo Shell

MongoShell is basically a JavaScript interpreter. You'll be able to CRUD data but also run simple JavaScript instructions.

Features include:

- Autocompletion via the `TAB` key
- Support of `.` and `[]` notation for JavaScript objects
- Support of BSON datatypes

Connextion to the shell: mongo

Example:

    > for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) print("Hello Bootstragram");
    Hello Bootstragram
    Hello Bootstragram
    Hello Bootstragram
    
    > help
    
    > obj = { "a" : 1, "b": "hello", "c": ["apple", "tomatoes"]}
    
    > NumberInt(1)

    > NumberLong(1)

    > new Date()

    > exit

### Query Language

`_id` is returned by default with queries.
`pretty()` helps formatting answers in a readable way.
The second argument tells MongoDB the name of the fields we want to fetch.

    > db.collection.findOne()
    > db.collection.findOne({"name": "Jones"})
    > db.collection.findOne({"name": "Jones"}, {"name": true, "_id": false})
    > db.scores.find( { type: "essay", score: 50 }, { student: true, _id: false } );
    
### Query operators

- `{ $gt : 95 }`: greather than (\>, NOT \>=)
- `$gte`, `$lt`, `$lte` are `>=`, `<` and `<=`
- `$exists` 
- `$type` (example: 2 for String)
- `$regex` (example: "^A$")

Example:

    > db.scores.find( { type: { $exists: true } } );

### Prefix Query operators

- `$or` + array 
- `$and` + array (not as useful)

Tricky : db.scores.find( { score : { $gt : 50 }, score : { $lt : 60 } } ); # only less than 60 are returned

### Querying inside arrays

- Polymorphism
- `$all : [ elem1, elem2 ]`
- `$in : [ enum1, enum2 ]` 

### Dot notation

Don't forget the double-quotes!